---
layout: post
title:  "I failed my 2023 reading goal"
date:   2024-01-07 15:00:00 +0000
categories: [books]
---

## Introduction

I love reading. But sometimes, there's just so many other things to do that I can't seem to make time for it.
I'm not much into New Year's resolutions, but I thought setting a goal of reading a book per week would help me be more consistent.

Even though I fell 3 books short, I'm still happy with the result. I read a lot, learned a lot and enjoyed it a lot.
Some weeks, I read almost nothing, and periods when I read a couple books per week. Overall, my reading habits
were more stable than before.

In the following section, I'd like to highlight some of the books I enjoyed the most.

## My top books

### An Immense World: How Animal Senses Reveal the Hidden Realms Around Us by Ed Yong
Our perception of the world is largely formed by what we see. But there are so many other ways to sense the world.
There are fish that can detect object based on electric resistance, and birds that can, probably, sense magnetic fields.
I used to think that echolocating animals can at best get a rough approximation of the obstacles they need to avoid.
But it turns out that there are blind who can get such accurate information from echolocation that they can ride a bike in traffic. 

### On Writing Well by William Zinsser
Writing simply is hard. It is a craft that needs to be practiced. Writer should do the hard work of conveying the message, so,
reader does not have to work hard to understand it. Writing that looks effortless often takes a lot of effort to produce.
The essence of this books can be captured by a quote ascribed to Einstein: "Everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler."

### The Long Haul: A Trucker's Tales of Life on the Road by Finn Murphy
I'd never thought that trucker's memoirs could be so interesting. I expected a couple of funny anecdotes, but this book is much more.
Murphy spent decades moving mostly rich people's stuff across the US. He talks about the hierarchy of different trucker types,
describes the struggles of hiring local helpers for loading and unloading, the relationships of truckers with trucking companies,
interaction with customers, etc. He learns more about the people whose stuff he moves in a few days than their friends might learn
in years. On top of that, the book is just so damn readable.

### Ethics in the Real World: 90 Essays on Things That Matter by Peter Singer
Peter Singer is one of the most influential philosophers today.
The books collects 90 essays that he wrote on various including religion, abortion, war, charity etc.
He brilliantly shows that logical consistency can lead to very counter-intuitive moral conclusions.
I enjoy Singer's clear writing style and his ability to point out fascinating perspectives.
On the other hand, I don't think he sufficiently justifies some of his premises. As a utilitarian, he believes that
minimizing suffering is the ultimate goal and bases all his arguments on that. That is problematic because it is not clear
how to objectively measure suffering. I understand that in the short space of and essay, he can't go into all the details.
I might need to read a bit more of his work to understand his position better.

## Conclusion
I knew that I was leaning towards non-fiction, but I didn't realize how much. I read 7 fiction books, and 42 non-fiction books.
I'll probably try to make this ratio more balanced in 2024. But it might be hard, because I've already stacked around 20 non-fiction books
that I'm excited about and I'm constantly getting new recommendations.

A book per week was a good goal. I'll try to hit it in 2024. Let's see how it goes this time.


